# CKEditor 5 How-to

This folder is the entire build made online to be used specifically in this software. To change it, `src/ckeditor.js` must be modified.

NOTE! All commands mentioned below needs to be run in the `ckeditor5/` folder.

(Optional!) If a new package is required, it needs to be installed with `yarn`.

```
yarn add <package-name>
```

When all the modifications are done, the package needs to be installed with `yarn`.

```
yarn install
```

This will generate the folder `node_modules` and the file `yarn.lock`, these should not be pushed to GitHub. Verify that these two elements are not included, as they should be hit by `.gitignore`.

After installation, the package needs to be built using `yarn`.

```
yarn build
```

The editor points to the build, so there should not be anything else here that needs to be done. However, the configuration in the `Editor.tsx` might need to be updated in order for it to work.

NOTE! If the version number is updated, the package needs to be upgraded in the main directory. This will not happen with `yarn upgrade --latest`, but rather specifically `yarn upgrade ckeditor5-custom-build`.

# CKEditor 5 editor generated with the online builder

This repository presents a CKEditor 5 editor build generated by the [Online builder tool](https://ckeditor.com/ckeditor-5/online-builder)

## Quick start

1. Open the `sample/index.html` page in the browser.

If you picked the real-time collaboration plugins:

2. Fill the dialog with correct token, websocket and upload URL endpoints. If you do not have these yet or do not know their meaning, [contact us](https://ckeditor.com/contact/).

3. Copy the URL and share it or paste in another tab to enjoy real-time collaborative editing.

If you picked the non-real-time collaboration plugins:

2. Fill the prompt with the license key. If you do not have the license key yet, [contact us](https://ckeditor.com/contact/).

## Configuring build

Changes like changing toolbar items, changing order of icons or customizing plugin configurations should be relatively easy to make. Open the `sample/index.html` file and edit the script that initialized the CKEditor 5. Save the file and refresh the browser. That's all.

_Note:_ If you have any problems with browser caching use the `Ctrl + R` or `Cmd + R` shortcut depending on your system.

However, if you want to remove or add a plugin to the build, you need to follow the next step of this guide.

Note that it is also possible to go back to the [Online builder tool](https://ckeditor.com/ckeditor-5/online-builder) and pick another set of plugins, but we encourage you to try the harder way, and to learn the principles of Node.js and CKEditor 5 ecosystems that will allow you to do more cool things in the future!

### Installation

In order to rebuild the application, you need to install all dependencies first. To do it, open the terminal in the project directory and type:

```
npm install
```

Make sure that you have the `node` and `npm` installed first. If you do not, follow the instructions on the [Node.js documentation page](https://nodejs.org/en/).

### Adding or removing plugins

You can install additional plugins in the build. Just follow the [Adding a plugin to an editor](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/builds/guides/integration/installing-plugins.html#adding-a-plugin-to-an-editor) tutorial.

### Rebuilding editor

If you have already done the [Installation](#installation) and [Adding or removing plugins](#adding-or-removing-plugins) steps, you're ready to rebuild the editor by running the following command:

```
npm run build
```

This will build the CKEditor 5 to the `build` directory. If you open your browser, you should be able to see the changes you've made in the code. If not, try to refresh the browser cache as well by typing `Ctrl + R` or `Cmd + R` depending on your system.

## What's next?

Follow the guides available on https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/framework/index.html and enjoy the document editing.

## FAQ

| _Where is the place to report bugs and feature requests?_

You can create an issue on https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5/issues including the build id - `fe5okqdl4cjp-darqszbtb88r`. Make sure that the question / problem is unique. You can find previously asked questions in the search box. Duplicates will be closed.

| _Where can I learn more about the CKEditor 5 framework?_

Here: https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/framework/

| _Is it possible to use online builder with common frameworks like React, Vue or Angular?_

Not yet, but these integrations will be available at some point in the future.
